Bevy 0.19 release note pass (#24176)
bevyengine/bevy: _release-content/release-notes/pccm.md

pull_requests: [22582]
---

*TODO: Add a before/after screenshot from the `pccm` example showing reflections with and without parallax correction.*

Bevy previously rendered cubemap reflections as though the environment were infinitely far away.
For outdoor scenes this is often fine, but for indoor scenes and dense environments the result looks wrong —

> reflections don't line up with the actual geometry around the viewer.

Reviewer: Tense issues, since we're referring to the way Bevy previously did rendering.

```suggestion
For outdoor scenes this was often fine, but for indoor scenes and dense environments the result looked wrong —
reflections didn't line up with the actual geometry around the viewer.
```

The standard fix is parallax correction: each reflection probe gets its own bounding box, and a raytrace against that box determines the correct sampling direction for the cubemap.
Bevy now applies this automatically for light probes, using the probe's influence bounding box as the correction volume.
This is a reasonable default for a cubemap capturing a rectangular room interior, and matches Blender's approach.

Parallax correction is enabled by default. To opt out on a specific probe, add `NoParallaxCorrection`:

```rust
commands.spawn((
    LightProbe,
    EnvironmentMapLight { .. },
    NoParallaxCorrection,
));
```

> A new `pccm` example demonstrates the effect, with parallax correction toggleable at runtime.

Reviewer 2: link example if possible (or provide a better path through the repo)

Author: I'm holding off on linking in general at this stage: there will be a PR with a few hundred links once it's moved over.
